hi this is coach Pierre with
well Academy I want to talk to you today
about a very common missed each
associated with armed action for years
coaches have been teaching this them to
the thigh fingers high creating a
perpendicular arm action they might use
cue terms such as show the snake fangs
show the ball the second baseman or
shortstop show the ball of the
centerfielder or any number of other
cues to create that perpendicular arm
action the problems associated with this
usually come through loading actions as
a pitcher lifts or a player lifts we
want to lift and create a good scapular
load a good two-sided load well when I
create this perpendicular arm action the
result that we get a lot of times is as
a guide lifts the elbow is going to end
up coming above the shoulder creating a
for loading action through myself in a
bad position as I rotate my shoulders
likewise another problem associated with
this it's a guy listen this
perpendicular arm action and he create
that scapular load the elbow ends up
coming below the shoulders the shoulders
and the elbows aren't on the same plane
a third common thing that happens is a
one-sided load as a player lifts creates
this perpendicular matching they'll just
load on one side we want a two-sided
load we want equal or symmetrical lows
again one of the reasons that that's
been taught is because without the aid
of high-speed video coaches thought that
they were seeing that arm perpendicular
to the ground the arm doesn't go
perpendicular to the ground to have a
picture of players start to rotate the
shoulders then the arm goes
perpendicular to the ground as the
pitcher goes in the foot strike we're
more in this horizontal imposition this
is going to allow me maximum arm speed
and get that arm moving
with some philosophy